# crud with aws rds
An Employee (CRUD) Spring Boot application deployable in AWS.
AWS RDS (mysql) Database having the records generated by a AWS lambda.

## Components

* Spring boot application using thymeleaf templates for employees view, add and delete

* Database (employee table) is hosted in Amazon RDS  
Table is Employee within AWS RDS (database is Book)  
id (auto-increment)  
name  
email  
phone_no  
Initially tested with H2 for quick check. Then made it mysql db hosted in AWS RDS.  


* AWS Elasticbeanstalk used for deployment of application

## Explanation of Work done
Application Data is stored in the RDS. Its own VPC.  

Database security achieved Security Groups level configuration of RDS.  
Allowed are Security Group of Elastic beanstalk hosted environment.    
As temporary included localhost NAT IP for testing.  


Database independence achieved using ORM. In this case Spring Data JPA over Hibernate bindings.  

Thymeleaf templates are used as view response in UI.
MVC Design pattern is used with Controller, Model (database Book) and View (thymeleaf templates)  

AWS Cloudwatch to monitoring various details of hosted application, including S3, RDS  


## (Not there)
* Basic Spring security enabled with a user restriction along with security starter pack (not fully tested).  
  Only present in feature/not-working-as-expected branch  
  
* Cognito User pool for User Authentication, Was trying using https://github.com/eugenp/tutorials/tree/master/spring-5-security-cognito 
  
* Plan was a python based lambda function to populate dummy data to the Database (employee table) in the RDS.  
  Similar to this - https://www.appychip.com/2018/02/aws-lambda-function-with-rds-mysql.html  

* CV to be stored directly in Amazon S3, bucket is employee-development. Only the file name in S3 is stored as attribute in the employee table

* Ajax calls for deletion of the employee and also for CV upload, download.  

* Infrastructure Deployment choice are AWS cloud formations and Terraform. My preference is Terraform, to get more cloud independence. 



## Improvements that can be done
* Unit tests
* AWS code deploy, build and commit can be used to automate build pipeline along with Jenkins server hosted in EC2 itself
* A UI framework like Angular or React instead of Thymeleaf templates. And then REST APIs can be controlled/monitored more using AWS services like API Gateway
* Amazon API Gateway to filter ingress/egress traffic to the application hosted in AWS Elastic Beanstalk (AWS EB).





